Constructor functions.
Let's see a few examples.
Let's just call this constructor functions.
Let's start off with an example.
Remember what the first step is in creating a constructor function?
It's to define your actual object.
So let's define the object.
Let's actually go here.
Step one.
Find the object.
And to define the object, we need to name it, let's call it a motorbike object.
And do you notice that I included a capital, M Capital later?
That's two standard convention.
So when you and I are going through code and we see a capital later, we know immediately that it's
an object and it was constructed via the constructor function.
And let's say the motorbike has color and a year when it was made.
That's actually also sort of yearly.
This has put name names in color.
Name and color.
And what are we going to do is that when we create an object, we want to define properties on it immediately
when we create.
So that's why we want to make this name and this name will be the name of the object we actually create
later.
And we want to make that equal to what we passed in the function in the constructor, which in this
case is name.
So we also want this color to be color.
That's step one.
You remember what step two was.
Step two was to call the function.
With the new hewould, so let's do that, let's define a variable that's called a variable.
My bike.
And let's say that equals new.
Motorbike.
And we've seen above that it requires two arguments, a name and a color.
So let's say the bike is a Yamaha and it's black.
And just take a step back, just understand what it is we've done here, the first step was to define
our object, and you can kind of think of it as a blueprint.
And we've said in our blueprint, when this is cool, it's going to be cold with two arguments a name
and a color.
We want the new variables name to be equal to the name we foster it and the new variables, color to
be the color we foster it.
And then on step two, we've actually instantiated that object, we've called it was the new keyword.
Now if we console.log off my bike.
We've got a name, a property name called Yamaha and a color code Black.
How awesome is it?
This is automatically done it for us because we've used a constructor function.
And what do you think will happen if we console log the time of my bike?
Well, it's an object.
Of course, it's an object, we're dealing with the creation of objects here.
But now before we move on, there's another way we can create an object using a constructor function
that is using JavaScript in enabled object constructor.
That's.
I'll just be open and honest now.
It's a bit more cumbersome, takes longer to write, and I'd much prefer something like this.
But for the sake of completeness, let me show you how it works.
So this is now using Java scripts enabled objects.
Constructed.
Let's do that now.
And for the sake of being exciting, let's don't use the motorbike we bought of that now.
Let's do a person object.
Let me just zoom in a bit late person.
Equal new object.
They touch that object.
There's a method built into JavaScript itself.
It's an object constructor, and I'll prove it to you by.
Console looking person, you can see it's an object.
And if we go type of.
Person.
You see that it is an object, so an object has been created, but now the pain with this is that to
ED methods and properties, we have to do it manually.
So to add a name, we would go person, not name who's only.
This is not age equals thirty five.
Now when you console.log it, the object is getting meat, but it's a pain, it's a pain that we have
to do that manually.
So if it's such a pain doing it manually, how would we do this exact same thing using the constructor
function we did above with the motorbike?
Why don't you pause the video?
Have a go and see if you can get.
U.S..
OK, let's do this using a constructor function.
Same as above, but with a structure function and you'll see how much more intuitive and easy it is.
What's the first step with the constructor function?
That's right.
You've got to define the object.
So let's define it as person.
And person's going to take a name and an age, and this name will be name and this age.
Will be age.
Now we want to create a user in the above example we call that use a person, so let's say this person
two that comes along.
And all we need to do now, and this is a second step to the constructor function, do you remember
what it was?
That's right.
Just calling that definition with the new keyword.
So we say this is a new person and it requires two arguments.
A name, let's call it money and an age.
Say thirty five.
And if I console.log person to it's a military really assigned to property names, name and age to this
object, how cool this.
I hope you're having as much fun as I am, but we are not done yet.
That is the good news.
So I'll see.